As the requirement for efficient underwater surveil lance and search operations has increased, so too has the necessity for dependable object detecting systems. In low visibility situations, traditional approaches frequently fail, necessitating the use of sophisticated detecting techniques. Three state-of the-art deep learning techniques—CenterNet, YOLO , and Faster R-CNN —are used in this study to improve underwater item detection accuracy, particularly in difficult conditions. Even in low light, the objective is to correctly identify a variety of things on the water surface, including people, ships, and air planes. Comprehensive testing shows that, in comparison to current techniques, our method greatly increases detection accuracy and robustness. The outcomes demonstrate our models’ practical applications in marine safety and efficiency by demonstrating how well they address the challenges presented by underwater settings. This study makes a significant contribution. Paper foucs on first step towards considering data from different sensors in environment, to develop detection performance in crtical conditions also. When optical imaging is mixed with data from sonar and radar, the model is improved in areas of block processing and small object detection [18]. This also shows benfit in making the proposed system a practical tool to meet the increasing challenge for providing safety and operational efficiency in different underwater scenarios along with the capability of real-time realization of the tool in marine operations 
